## Week of 29 January 2024

### Project work:
- created the design notebook
  
This week, I mostly spent time wrapping my head aroud Github: froking, creating and understanding branches, commiting, pulling requests, pushing from lcoal machine to upstream

## Week of 5 February 2024

### Project work:
- [Started lab1 on Annubis (created CMake file and implemented the hello world program)](https://github.com/fatimafarooq03/VIP-Lab1.git)

This week, I spent most of the time figuring out the error I got when I tried to push something from my local machine to my remote github repo but I had no luck so switched to Annubis just to get started with onbaording lab1. I downloaded VS Code with Git Lens extension, and I aim to work on it when working on my local computer. I plan on finishing lab1 by next week as well as successfully setting up the devlopment enviroment on my computer(mac). 

## Week of 12 February 2024

### Project work:
-[Completed Lab 1](https://github.com/fatimafarooq03/VIP-Lab1.git)

This week, I spent trying to overcome the error I got when trying to push from my computer to github. I finally managed to overcome it by generating and using SSH key. I also finished lab 1 and familairized myself with the format of Makefiles and build systems

## Week of 19 February 2024

### Project work:
-[completed Lab 2](https://github.com/fatimafarooq03/onboarding-lab-2.git)

This week, I spent a lot of time revisitng verilog syntax and sequential and combinatorial concepts in Verilog. I also got introduced to the different test types and successfully completed lab 2.

### Week of 26 February 2024

### Project work:
-[started lab 3](https://github.com/fatimafarooq03/onboarding-lab-3.git)

This week, I started with lab 2 but encountered errors as I continued working on lab2. I then spent significant time setting up the development ennviroment on my laptop. I encounterted multiple errors when running cmake but was able to resolve it through installing the required packages I then spent most of the time trying to familaize myself with the testing frame and how to utilize it to configure appropriate tests for the given verilog modules and completed exercise 1 and 2. 
