# Pingchuan's Spring 2024 Design Notebook
## Feb. 5th - Feb. 11th
### Work
- [AMBA] Writing the testbench for the AHB decoder
### Comments
I met some difficulties trying to compile the testbench. After consulting Rishyak, I updated some of my packages and was able to get the executable. The tests weren't successful so I'm trying to debug.

## Feb. 12th - Feb. 18th
### Work
- [AMBA] Fixing the testbench and the decoder
### Comments
I was able to fix through the testbench with the help from Rishyak, got rid of some unnecessary lines of code and replaced them with more concise functions provided by nyu-util such as nyu::reset() and nyu::tick(). I'm currently fixing some bugs with the address calculation in the AHB Simple Decoder module.

## Feb. 19th - Feb. 25th
### Work
- [AMBA] Fixing the testbench and the decoder
- Readig AMBA specs for designing the AHB-APB bridge
### Comments
Turns out that the problem with the decoder testbench was defect on ahb.addr instead of implementation of SimpleDecoder.sv, reported the problem to Rishyak.
I'm currently reading the APB file and AMBA spec file to design the AHB-APB bridge.

## Feb. 26th - Mar. 3th
### Work
- [AMBA] Reading AMBA specs for deesigning the AHB-APB bridge
### Comments
Still reading the specs.

## Mar. 4th - Mar. 10th
### Work
- [AMBA] Encountered trouble while reading the writing and reading procedures in interfacing between AHB and APB. Consulted Rishyak and Vito about the concepts, problem solved.
### Comments
The similarity between reading and writing procedures is that they both include an INITIATE, SETUP, and ENABLE phase, which is what I'm aiming to implement.

## Mar. 11th - Mar. 17th
### Work
- Overwhelmed by midterm exams, didn't do much work.

## Mar. 18th - Mar. 24th
### Work
- Spring break.

## Mar. 25th - Apr. 1st
### Work
- [AMBA] I started with a basic outline on designing the bridge with a state machine. Having IDLE, SETUP, and ENABLE states.
### Comments
The state machine design accords with my outline.

## Apr. 2nd - Apr. 8th
### Work
- This week, I was held off by OS midterm, and continued to write the AHB-APB bridge; the write operation is almost complete, and I think the read operation will be very similar.
### Comments
I am determined to finish the bridge by next week.

## Apr. 9th - Apr. 16th
### Work
- This week, I finished the module for AHB-APB bridge, and sent it to Rishyak for review.

## Apr. 17th - Apr. 23rd
### Work
- I had severe acid reflux and couldn't get out of bed. Begining to recover.

## Apr. 24th - Apr. 30th
### Work
- This week I presented my semester progress, it was mainly about the SimpleDecoder testbench and the bridge.
### Comments
I think I still need to revise my code for the bridge, and maybe write a testbench for it.

## May. 1st - May 7th
### Work
- No work has been done, I am focusing on my exams and final projects, and will be doing so till the end of term.
