# Cameron Bedard Design Notebook

###### 09/16 - 09/20
- Reviewed Core Team Documentaion. Brainstormed ways to make it more beginner friendly.
###### 09/23 - 09/27
- Met with Xingzhi on Core Team objectives for the semester and plan to enroll new members to the team.
###### 09/30 - 10/04
- Studied the past outlines of the interconnection modules.
- Began to understand the outstanding outlines for the interconnection modules.
###### 10/07 - 10/11
- Worked on documentation for the General Control Module. Backtracking through the documentation studying origin of design decisions.
- Worked with Michael on understanding implementatnion details.
- Identified mistakes in the outlines whcih caused mistakes in the implementation.
###### 10/14 - 10/18
- Updating the General Control Modules outline and implementaion and doublechecking design logic.

###### 10/21 - 10/25
- Continued studying old design documentation to troubleshoot the errors in documentaiton.

###### 10/28 - 11/01
- Began working with Xingzhi on potentuially changing the VIP structure.

###### 11/04 - 11/08
- Worked with James Xie on a plan for a new docus for the VIP.

###### 11/11 - 11/15
- Worked on material, roadmap, and tasks for a new focus for the VIP.

###### 11/18 - 11/22
- Researched OpenRoad ASIC design
- Researched eFabless ASIC pritning
- Researched TinyTapeout ASIC printing

###### 11/25 - 11/29
- Thanksgiving break

###### 12/02 - 12/06
- Made a rough plan for redesigning the VIP labs and got feedback from peers.

###### 12/09 - 12/13
- Worked on my presentation to the group on redesinigng the VIP.
- Finals.
