# Xhovani's VIP Processor Design Notebook Fall 2024

### Week of 9 September 2024
#### Project Work:

#### Getting Started
- **Design Notebooks and Git:**
    - [x] 3.1 Getting Started With Git
    - [x] 3.2 Working With Your Repo
    - [x] 3.3 Your First Pull Request
    - [x] 3.4 Your First Design Notebook
    - [x] 3.5 Working Collaboratively

- **Setting up Development Environment:**
    - [x] 4.1 Homebrew Installation Guide for macOS
    - [x] 4.2 VirtualBox Guide
    - [x] 4.3 Windows: WSL Installation
    - [x] 4.4 VS Code Extension Recommendations  

- **[Onboarding Labs]()**:
    - [x] 5.1 Lab Guidance

    - [x] 5.2 Lab 1: CMake and Toolchain
        Q. What version of CMake is running in your environment?
        A. cmake version 3.30.3
        <br/>

        Q. What is the purpose of cmake_minimum_required(VERSION [major].[minor]) in the CML file?
        A. The cmake_minimum_required command sets the minimum version of CMake required to build the project.
        <br/>

        Q. Run make help and figure out what the valid targets (command arguments) are for this project. For all the targets that start with “hello”, can you figure out what they produce? What about all and clean?

        A. The following are some of the valid targets:
         -   all               - Build all projects
         - clean             - Remove all generated files
         - hello_world       - Build the hello_world executable
         - install           - Install the compiled files to the system
         <br/>

        Q. The paths used by target_sources and target_include_directories are relative, not absolute. What file or folder are they relative to?

        A. The paths are relative to the CMakeLists.txt file that contains the target_sources and target_include_directories commands.
         <br/>

        Q. What are some differences between cmake and ninja?
        A. CMake is a build system generator that generates build files for a build system like Ninja. Ninja is a build system that reads in build files and executes the build. CMake can generate build files for other build systems like Make, but Ninja is the recommended build system for this course.

         <br/>
        Q. Why is it important to run cmake in its own directory?

        A. Running cmake in its own directory allows you to keep the build files separate from the source files. This makes it easier to clean up the build files and start fresh if needed.
         <br/>

    - [ ] 5.3 Lab 2: System Verilog

    - [ ] 5.4 Lab 3: Verification

    - [ ] 5.5 Lab 4: Verification Toolchain

    - [ ] 5.6 Lab 5: Advanced System Verilog

    - [ ] 5.7 Lab 6: Packaging and Dependency Managment

    - [ ] 5.8 Lab 7: Becoming a Processor Designer

    - [x] 5.9 Lab 8+: Advanced Processor Design


# Weekly Updates

## Week of 23 September 2024

Project Work:
  * [Onboarding Lab 1]([link/to/repo](https://github.com/XhovaniM8/nyu-processor-design.github.io/blob/ea1a70e0ff013af3d4fffec3011873f00bf21db4/src/design_notebooks/2024fall/xxm202.md)): 

  Had some issues with running CMAKE. I was able to resolve this by reinstalling make with arm64 support. 

  


