# Week of September 11, 2023
Project Work:
  * Read up on GitHub functionality (mainly Repos, Branches, Forks, and Pull Requests)
  * Created first design notebook entry

Admittedly I won't have much time this semester, so my goal is to at least complete the onboarding labs. I aim to start (and ideally complete) Onboarding Lab 1 by the end of next week.

# Week of September 25, 2023
Project Work:
  * Started Onboarding Lab 1 in Anubis (don't know how to link it yet)
  * I made my first CML file using Anubis, and got "Hello World" to print in the terminal. 

I created a folder for my onboarding labs in my personal copy before realizing that wasn't what I was supposed to do. Got slightly overwhelmed trying to figure out how to delete it - I feel like a toddler. Currently trying to find a good YT series to walk me through the baby steps of GitHub. Also still don't how to directly link my work in Anubis to the Github repository, will ask Vito about it this Tuesday.\

For this upcoming week, I want to finish Onboarding Lab 1. This week, I didn't make the stupid mistake of grading multiple homework problems so hopefully I'll have time.

# Week of October 2, 2023
Project Work:
  * Finished [Onboarding Lab 1](https://github.com/Auryny268/onboarding_lab1)

I finally finished Onboarding Lab 1! I had to go to Rishyak and Vito's office hours to wrap my head around GitHub, git, the whole shebang. I also downloaded VSCode which has improved my life significantly.\
Unfortunately I don't think I'll be able to start the next lab for a while since I'll be super busy with dogsitting, midterms, and homework for Scientific Computing (T ^ T) . I'm hoping to get enough free time to finish Onboarding Lab 2 after my PDEs midterm on Oct 19th.