# Aneesh's Design Notebook

## November 22nd, 2023:

Doing more research into the different componetry to be added to the simulator, still very WIP.

## November 10th, 2023:

Looking into different componentry to be added - including "the memory model, input/output device models, ELF loader, etc" to work with the C++ Verilator models.

## October 30th, 2023:

Currently waiting for RISC-V simulator to be developed - according to Vito Gamberini, "RISC-V32I is a fixed length instruction set with 47 instructions. It's like 200 lines of code to write the CPU simulation in software. That's the smallest part of this". 

## October 23rd, 2023:
Project Work:
- Finished all labs

From here, I will now do research to see what I want to delve more deeply into; I'm leaning towards the simulators.

## October 9th, 2023:
Project Work:
- Finished Lab 3 [here](https://github.com/aminoa/proc-design/tree/main/labs/lab3)
- Progress on Lab 4 [here](https://github.com/aminoa/proc-design/tree/main/labs/lab4)

I fixed this branch such that the changes are made on a separate working branch. I'm almost done with lab 4 now which is good; I also talked in the Discord earlier today on how I would continue on the project after I finish the labs.

## September 30th, 2023:
Project Work:
- Started Lab 3 [here](https://github.com/aminoa/proc-design/tree/main/labs/lab3)

I started working through the exercises and was making progress on the second part; however, I wasn't sure how to use the testing framework properly with the second test so I stopped for now. I'll try to make progress on the rest of this lab throughout this week

## September 24th, 2023:

Project Work:
- Did Lab 2 [here](https://github.com/aminoa/proc-design/tree/main/labs/lab2)

I brushed up on some basic verilog and was able to build the project. I then worked on this weeks lab (sometimes peeking at the implementations done by Siddharth and Nicky if I got stuck) and was able to pass all test cases. Note that I plan on shifting my processor design work to be done on the weekend for the rest of the semester.

## September 18th, 2023:

Project Work:
- Set up [GitHub fork](https://github.com/aminoa/nyu-processor-design.github.io) to work on projects and submit pull requests
- Did Lab 1 [here](https://github.com/aminoa/proc-design/tree/main/labs/lab1)

I got my GitHub repo set up and worked on setting up my development environment. I also got through the first lab. I plan on getting through the rest of them throughout this week. 