# Carlos's Design Notebook
Hello, my name is Carlos and this is my first design notebook.

I am a transfer sophomore pursuing a computer engineering major. Thank you for bringing me onboard this VIP group.

## Week 1 (Sept. 11 - Sept.17)

Tasks: 
* [Onboarding Lab 1](https://github.com/cperezguzman/On_boarding_lab_1.git): Completed Lab 1
	

I spent this week working on the onboarding lab 1 which help me familiarize myself with the concept of the toolchain and its purposes as well as the structure of CMake and build systems. 

As someone who has had minimal interaction with git and GitHub, I need to get accustomed to and improve my understanding of git and GitHub, so Thursday night I spent getting help from Rishyak and making my design_notebook, as well as practicing how to make repos, branches, forks, and the other basic of git and GitHub.

## Week 2 (Sept. 18 - Sept. 24)

Tasks:
* [Onboarding Lab 2](https://github.com/cperezguzman/onboarding-lab-2.git): Completed Lab 2

Throughout the weekend I worked on the onboarding lab 2 and familiarized myself with Verilog.

Over spring 2023, I took Digital Logic and Computer Systems at my old university where I learned how to use VHDL, however I did not continue using those skills throughout the summer so this lab really helped me regain some of the proficiency I had. I still had trouble learning the syntax and logic behind Verilog, and I still have to learn more to be able to actually contribute to this team, but this lab helped me take my first step.
