# Suriya's Design Notebook
## Week: Sep.10 - Sep.16 /2023
### work:
- completed lab1 [onBoardingLab1](https://github.com/suriyasaiyan/NYU_MPD_LABS/tree/main/lab1)
- completed lab2 [onBoardinglab2](https://github.com/suriyasaiyan/NYU_MPD_LABS/tree/main/lab2)

### comments: 
- already had the WSL on my laptop so installing the required softwares wasn't a hassle.
- had the github for long but never worked on team, so looking forward to it.
- cmake was new for me, did take some time to install and get to know the stuff.
- the answers for the exercise are in Readme.md files of the respective labs
- had to look up LFSR, did some problems on it previously. Everything else is straight Forward brushing up basics.
- completed the verification and encounterd a problem in exercise 2, rectified it.
- starting on verification. 

## Week: Sep.17 - Sep.23/2023
### Work:
- worked on lab3, not attaching the link yet
### comments: 
- completed exercise 1,2 working on 3 and 4
- in next week will complete the lab3 and maybe 4 too
- researching on teams 

## Week: Sep.24 - Oct.1/2023
### Work:
- Completed lab3 [lab3](https://github.com/suriyasaiyan/NYU_MPD_LABS/tree/main/lab3)
### Comments:
- brushed upon C++; working on lab4
- researching on which to join after the onboarding labs.
- encountered a build issue, cleared it

## Week: Oct.2 - Oct.8/2023
#### Work:
- Completed lab4[onboarding-lab-4](https://github.com/suriyasaiyan/NYU_MPD_LABS/tree/main/lab4)

### comments:
- got to use some macros from catch2 dependecny
- got hang of how all the packages work in the onboarding labs that we did
- doing somemore work on them to get good hang of it.
- planning on joining core team 
- don't know the process but will text in the group.