# Darren's Design Notebook

*floating around the abyss leading the team*

## Week of January 25th

### Project Work

* Had multiple leadership meetings with new leads and setup short term goals for the VIP
* Held first All-Team meeting as part of a new meeting structure that we are trying out this semester
* Looked over onboarding Labs 1-2

#### Comments

* Coming into this semester with a team that is ready to turn this ship around, hopefully...

## Week of February 1st

### Project Work

* Met with Vito to discuss project plans and some git related issues. Specifically how to fix pull requests that do not follow conventions for our project repo.
* Vito pushed an update to Onboarding Lab 2 after Srijan found a bug in it.
* Will bring this up at next all team meeting for all members.

## Week of February 8th

### Project Work

* Discussed with leads on how to hold makeup meetings/give information to people that can not make the all-team meetings.
* Looked at onboarding labs 3 and 4.

## Week of February 15th

### Project Work

* Second all team meeting, provided a better demo on Git, and made clear the expectations for PR's moving forward. Also assigned more work to returning members to keep on track of established goals.

## Week of February 22nd

### Project Work

* Met with Joe to discuss paper, next steps of main project. We have a list of questions for previous members of the team and want to begin working on an outline to have a succesful project.

## Week of March 1st

### Project Work

* Held 3rd All team meeting, lower attendance than usual, but people attended via zoom. Began assigning members to subteams of main processor project.
* Discussed with leads about next steps, plans and how we want to move forward with the VIP.
* Joe and I will be leading AMBA/Memory redevelopment/documentation, I hope to have a good discussion with the fellow subteam members before the next all team meeting.

## Week of March 8th

### Project Work

* Begin initial shift towards RISC-V 32 Bit Processor, Joe and I will lead AMBA/Memory
* Reading through some basic AMBA documentation and the toolchain paper written by Vito.
  
## Week of March 15th

### Project Work

* In leadership meeting, we discuss how the plan to continue with RISC-V 32 Bit processor is not going to work, and setup meeting time with Professor Dey.
* Midterm's so not much else.

## Week of March 29th

### VIP Work

* Met with leadership about VIP future, and new leadership.
* Met with Dey to discuss the VIP's future and current progress of the VIP
* Briefly Discussed with leadership on how to accept new members for next semester.
  
## Week of April 5th

### VIP Work

* Substantial development during Leadership meeting, we discussed shifting towards a Multi-Project Wafer submission as our goal. 
* Instead of the final presentations on what they did for the semester, we have shifted it to be them finding ideas for an MPW project. 
* The leadership team will also be presenting on an idea for an MPW project.

#### Comments

* While attendance in-person was low, people seemed more excited for this idea as there is an actual goal/submission and covers a lot more of an ASIC design flow. 
* Team name change incoming??