## Week One (1/26-2/1)
This week, I attended the group meeting and gained a basic understanding of what I will be doing for the semester. I connected with a groupmate for the onboarding project, worked through the setup instructions through Part 3, and submitted this update as my first pull request.

## Week Two (2/2-2/8)
• Met with my groupmate (Tony) to coordinate work on the onboarding project.
• Completed Onboarding Lab 1.
• Began the RISC-16 onboarding project ([risk16-onboarding](https://github.com/tonykorycki/risk16-onboarding)) and completed Module 1.

## Week Three (2/9-2/15)
• Meet with Tony to complete Onboarding Assignment 2, confirmed with Noah on our progress.
• Read through and discussed the slides with my teammate.

## Week Four (2/16-2/22)
• This week Tony is out of town, so we couldn't meet up. We split the work and did it on our own.
• I went over the slides and finished the register_file.v, added notes in the file's comments.
• Joined the all-team meeting on Wednesday.

## Week Five (2/23-3/1)
• Meet up with Tony to catch up on what we did last week.
• Finished assignment 4, added notes and comments in the file. 
• Discussed about the fundamentals of the project. 

## Week Six (3/2-3/8)
• Finished the risc-16 final module. 
• Debugged it, tried a few inputs, and it functioned as predicted.

## Week Seven (3/9-3/15)
• Finished onboarding lab 1. installed the tools and setting needed for it.
• ([Gloria-onboarding-labs]https://github.com/Gloria-Xin/Processor_Design_Labs.git)

## Week Eight (3/16-3/22)
• Spring break.

## Week Nine (3/23-3/29)
• Finished onboarding lab 2, get more familiar with system verilog.
• ([Gloria-onboarding-lab2]https://github.com/Gloria-Xin/onboarding-lab-2.git)