# Noah Mays-Smith's Design Notebook

## Week One:
### This Week I:
- Held an informational meeting for all members. I was focused on onboarding information
- Set up new members with their RiSC-16 project teams, and created groupchats with all teams. These chats included Ghala for attendence. Chats are meant to allow me to check in on teams for attendance, figure out when their team meetings are, and share any information specific to the team
- Organized GitHub with the help of Ghala to better define who is who. New roles are "First Semester" "Current Members" and "Current Leadership." These roles will allow us to better use the discord and the @ feature.
- Rewrote the Instruction Memory and PC informational slideshows into one starting assignment. This assignment strongly guides new members on their path. As modules progress, they will give less of a helping hand.
- Attended Biweekly meetings with co-leaders (Wednesday and Thursday) to ensure team is on the right track

### Notes:
- There are some issues with members Mohamed and Yvette joining the team. They missed the first meeting, failed to join the discord on time, and are missing a lot of key information. I will try to bring them up to speed in the coming weeks.

## Week Two:
### This week I:
- Rewrote the ALU and Data Memory informational slideshows into one assignment. This assignment still guides the viewer along the path of creating the module, but gives more freedom and refers back to earlier information more instead of directly saying how to do an assignment.
- Attended biweekly meetings with co-leaders to ensure team is on the right track

### Notes:
- Still struggling with getting Mohamed and Yvette up to speed. They are in the Discord, but are not responding to friend requests, so I cannot make the group chat for attendance and give them the attention they need to get back on pace with the rest of the group. 

## Week Three:
### This week I:
- Met with 3 teams to discuss how the onboarding is going. Gave them advice and assistance with their project.
- Got Mohamed and Yvette into a meeting, and have them starting the project. Still having some trouble checking where they're at
- Made the assignment slides for the last two design modules of the RiSC-16 project

### Notes:

## Week Four:
### This week I:
- Wrote the testbench assignment slides
- Held the all team meeting

### Notes:
- I learned about the CPU core instruction set architecture for the team, and plan on reading it next week
- Also I'm now using Git kinda properly in the terminal instead of in the browser

## Week Five:
### This Week I:
- Assisted several groups with their project work
- Wrote the slides for combining all the work together
### Notes:

## Week Six:
### This Week I:
- Held an all team meeting to discuss work moving forward
- Communicated with several groups to help them finish off the project
### Notes:
- Assigned the Labs as homework

## Week Seven:
### This Week I:
- Helped some groups with their project
### Notes:
- Spring Break started this week, so some people couldn't get as much work done

## Week Eight:
### This Week I:
- Helped some groups with their project
- Read over the paper for the all-team project
### Notes:

## Week Nine:
### This Week I:
- Planned out final projects and work moving forward for the team
- Held all-team meeting to go over work moving forward, and the status of new members
- Assigned preliminary subteams to members
### Notes:

## Week Ten:
### This Week I:
- Busy this week
### Notes:

## Week Eleven:
### This Week I:
- Discussed more for the final project
- Restructured plan for next semester based on MPWs
### Notes:

## Week Twelve:
### This Week I:
- Missed meeting due to work
### Notes:

## Week Thirteen:
### This Week I:
- Began work on final project
- Finalized teams for final project
- Accepted/rejected applications for next semester
### Notes:

## Week Fourteen:
### This Week I:
- Assisted teams with their final projects
- Discussed next years MPW plans with leadership
- Began on the final presentation about Power-aware DDR memory
### Notes:

## Week Fifteen:
### This Week I:
- Finished final presentation
- Presented final presentation
- Shared MPW final plan with team for next semester
### Notes:
