# Simon Hu - Design Notebook (Spring 2026)

## Week 5
### Comments:
Read the paper NYU Processor Design Team SoC CPU Core

Summary of the paper:
This report introduces a single-core 32-bit CPU designed by the NYU Processor Design Team, supporting the RISC-V 32I instruction set. It employs a five-stage pipeline architecture (IF-ID-EX-MEM-WB) and implements key processor mechanisms such as branch prediction, a cache system, and hazard detection. The overall design is largely complete, with most modules implemented and tested, but further integration and verification are required to achieve a complete SoC tape-out.

## Week 4
### Comments:
Understand the core of verification. 
One output is from the Verilator, and the other is from the testbench.

### Work done:
- revised the lab 3 and verified the testbench on exercise 2.
- terminal respond:
simonlinux@DESKTOP-8L3L3I6:/mnt/e/NYU/processerVIP/onboarding-lab-3/build$ ./exercise2
Randomness seeded to: 2048508371
===============================================================================
All tests passed (404 assertions in 4 test cases)


## Week 3
### Comments:
Since in Lab 3 repo lack of header file, I first installed the verilator. Expected install in linux environment.
Recommend learning Verilator: https://verilator.org/guide/latest/

### Work done:
- revised the lab 2 and verified the testbench.
- terminal respond: 
simonlinux@DESKTOP-8L3L3I6:/mnt/e/NYU/processerVIP/onboarding-lab-2/build$ ./dv/tests
Randomness seeded to: 2918360953
===============================================================================
All tests passed (262654 assertions in 10 test cases)

- onboarding lab 2 link: https://github.com/1fHu/onboarding-lab-2.git
- finished onboarding lab 3

### Core instructions:
cd build

cmake ..
cmake --build .
./dv/tests

remember to add the testbench file to CMakeLists.txt
e.g. add_executable(tests
  exercise1.cpp
  exercise2.cpp
  exercise3.cpp
  exercise4.cpp
)

## Week 2
### Comments:
Busy week with conference travel.
### Work done:
Still working on onboarding lab 3.

## Week 1
### Comments:
Onboarding Lab 1 and 2 is finished by last semester.
Onboarding Lab 3 Repo is not ready for directly used;
it needs more files, such as VExercise1.h, to run the testbench.
The files are available to be found in onboarding lab 2 repo.

### Work done:
Finished Onboarding Lab 3 Exercise 1 this week. 
Link to onboarding lab 3:https://github.com/1fHu/onboarding-lab-3