## Week of January 23 2023
#### Project Work:
* Took a quick look at the Week 1 onboarding lab, but wasn't able to make much progress yet. Will definitely spend some time during week 2 getting ahead as I have more time.

## Week of January 30 2023
#### Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 1](https://github.com/NickyDCFP/NYU-Processor-Design-VIP/tree/main/Lab%201): Completed Lab 1
  * Opened an issue on Lab 1 (`cmake` and toolchain) to describe some trouble that I had with `cmake`. 
* Attempted Lab 2, but was unable to make progress as I'm on Anubis.
#### Github Desktop: 
Here's a quick summary of where Github Desktop slots into my personal tech stack. Personally, I like to use the browser version of Github for forks, etc., probably just because I'm used to it and haven't had to do anything sufficiently complicated to where I'd need to change that. Github Desktop is convenient for linking my files to Github, specifically because, right after I've forked a repo, there's a button to swap over to Github Desktop. This copies all the files directly to my machine, and Github Desktop has functionality to open those files in VSCode. Once there, I can edit the files as I please, click back to Github Desktop, and commit the files to Github in one or two clicks. This is especially useful when a project is organized in a complex manner, eg with a lot of directories. One button, and it's all uploaded. Once I'm done uploading/updating whatever I need to, there's a convenient button to open the repository in a browser. You can also do pulls, etc. from Github Desktop, but I prefer to do those from the browser version, so being able to get the linking done and return to the interface that I'm more familiar with is a nice feature.

## Week of February 6 2023
#### Project Work
* Still wasn't able to work on lab 2, but went venturing around for small mistakes and such.
  * Noticed a small grammatical error, so created a [pull request](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-processor-design.github.io/pull/46)
