## Week of 23 January 2023

Updates:
Made a Github account
Began learning how to use Github and how to forks, branching, and pull requests
Started looking through lab 1 without making significant progress

To Do:
Continue becoming more comfortable with Git
Complete lab 1 and begin lab 2

## Week of 30 January 2023

Project Work:

([Onboarding Lab 1](https://github.com/gil92723/Week-1.git)): Completed Lab 1
This week was used to complete the onboarding lab for week 1.

I am a bit behind on labs and may have to speed up, but I got a bit stuck on part 2 and 3 because the separate include and src directories caused some sort of error that I couldn’t figure out. I was also confused on how to see any output. Below are some other notes I took during the lab.

Lab 1 notes

* had difficulty figuring out what directory was at first and then was confused on what exactly to do to have the directory show up in the console, but I figured it out eventually!!
successfully printed out “Hello World”
* for part 2 I learned:
  * add_executable() will introduce a new program to be created
  * target_sources([new name] PRIVATE [file used.cpp]) will be the source file used with this new program
* had some trouble figuring out how to actually run the new files that I made with name.hpp and name.cpp …
* Questions I had:
*   when would you need a meta-build system?
*   is part 2 supposed to produce any output?

## Week of 6 Feb 2023

* Began Onboarding Lab 2 but did not complete. I found I was unfamiliar with LFSR and forgot some Verilog syntax so I reached out to the group for some guidance.

## Week of 13 Feb 2023

Project work:
* Learned about pull requests for updating the design notebook with Krzysztof

## Week of 20 Feb 2023

Had a busy week so only had time to read through lab 3 and brush up on more verilog. Might plan to come up with a list of topics I'm unsure of and run through them with someone soon!

## Week of 27 Feb 2023

Project work:
* ([Onboarding Lab 2](https://github.com/gil92723/onboarding-lab-2.git)): Completed Lab 2

I actually finished this lab a while ago and literally just forgot that I didn't test it... This week I sat down, installed homebrew, and had LOTS of fun learning how to properly use homebrew and how to test this lab. I didn't realize that I didn't have cmake installed or whatever is needed to run verilog stuff locally. Thankfully, Nicky K helped me out with the testing stuff using cmake and a friend from home helped yell at me until I learned homebrew and cmake fully (thumbs up, def wasn't abused into obtaining knowledge) :)

I feel much more comfortable with github and verilog, as well as just identifying what exactly it is I struggle with/how to explain what I need help with to people!!

## Week of 6 Mar 2023

Project work:
* ([Onboarding Lab 3](https://github.com/gil92723/onboarding-lab-3.git)): Completed Lab 3

Lab 3 consisted of me staring at the test cases from lab 2 and trying to learn and implement them myself. I think I have a good handle on how to start a test case, but I think I may need a little bit more time to understand how to make sure when the test case is messed up vs when the program is messed up.
