# Krzysztof's Design Notebook
Founding member, project manager, bald guy

## Week of 23 January 2023
### Project Work: 
* [Onboarding Lab 1](https://github.com/kc3977/VIP/tree/master/week_one_lab) Completed Lab 1 
* [Design Notebook](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-processor-design.github.io/pull/10) Started repo for the design notebook

Completed Oreintation Lab 1, configured git and GitHub access for use with Anubis 
because my computer recently had a stroke and I don't trust it to hold anything 
even remotely resembling anything that could be somewhat important.

Also started a secondary VIP repo for my work and notebook,
I'm a little bit paranoid since my PC had the aforementioned stroke.

## Week of 30 January 2023
### Project Work
* [Onboarding Lab 2](https://github.com/kc3977/onboarding-lab-2) Completed Lab 2
* [Onboarding Lab 3](https://github.com/kc3977/onboarding-lab-3) Completed Lab 3
* [New Job](https://nyu-processor-design.github.io/vip_course_docs/membership.html) Project Manager of our VIP team
* [Design Notebook](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-processor-design.github.io/pull/32) Updated the design notebook

Playing a little bit of catch-up-ahead, because my availability may get spotty over the next few weeks,
turns out that getting married takes up a lot of time before it actually happens!

Completed Orientation Labs 2 & 3, went fairly smoothly, although I did have to do what is called
a PRO-proGrAMmER-MOVE and did google a lot for syntax and basic terms reasons, 
because I never remeber things when I need them (obviously).

Also have been appointed Project Manager, as the other more different bald person on the team,
I think there's a pattern emerging here...

Another interesting side effect of my computer's near death experience is that my minus key is very dead.
I found out when I had to fix code, because none of the keystrokes on the - key registered (I hope insert key will not be required moving forward in my life, because it's now rebinded to -).
And the speakers stopped working. And the screen has a purple smudge in the middle, because red and blue
subpixels dont turn off properly. 

## Week of 6 February 2023
### Project Work
* [Onboarding Lab 4](https://github.com/kc3977/onboarding-lab-4) Completed Lab 4
* [Project Management]() Completed bi-weekly PM rounds
* [Design Notebook](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-processor-design.github.io/pull/45) Updated the design notebook

Completed Orientation Lab 4, all seemingly straightforward, however (disclosure), I did not test/compile the code, because Anubis was having none of it at the time I was doing the lab, and I did not have time to come back to it this week.

Completed bi-weekly PM rounds to make sure all team members have everything they need to complete their tasks for the week.

Updated my design notebook, and that was it for the week. Getting married really does take up a lot of one's time - will do my best to catch up after next two weeks pass.

## Week of 12 Februrary 2023
### Project Work
* [Project Management]() Completed one round of PMs on Monday
* [Design Notebook](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-processor-design.github.io/pull/71) Updated the design notebook, minor formatting changes

The week of getting married, busy with everything outside of school, only had time to complete one round of PMs. 
Had a quick meeting with Vito, then Rielle to help get everyone on the same page when it comes to documentation.
Made some minor formatting changes to my Design Notebook.

## Week of 20 February 2023
### Project Work
* [Project Management]() Completed rounds of PMs.

The week after I got married, completely slammed with starting midterm season and overdue school work.
Creating this entry more than a week later than the date above.

## Week of 27 February 2023
### Project Work
* [Project Management]() Completed rounds of PMs.
* [Onboarding Lab 5]() Completed the reading assignment.
* [Design Notebook](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-processor-design.github.io/pull/83) Updated the design notebook

Completed lab 5 reading portion, inicluding the blogpost, and my rounds of PMs.
A few people had difficulty when navigating github, especially when it comes to all the naming (forks, branches, upstream, origin, and all the other lingo software people use). Had the first team leadership meeting, and attended my first general team meeting, because my class I usually have at 5 got moved( but only this time I'm afraid).  
