## Week of January 23, 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 1](https://github.com/ShinyMiraidon/Chip-VIP-Team-Lab-1): Completed Lab 1
* [Onboarding Lab 2](https://github.com/ShinyMiraidon/Chip-VIP-Team-Lab-2): Completed Lab 2


This week was spent mostly on completing onboarding labs 1 and 2. I worked by myself to complete these onboarding labs. I also opened two issue reports about mistakes in the labs and they were resolved.


Both labs were a good post break refresh on the basics of cmake, make, and verilog.

## Week of January 30, 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 3](https://github.com/ShinyMiraidon/Chip-VIP-Team-Lab-3): Completed Lab 3
* [Docs for Homebrew](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-processor-design.github.io/pull/25): Created documentation for using Homebrew on Mac to install the required dependencies for the onboarding labs


This week was spent mostly on completing onboarding lab 3 with some time also spent on creating the Homebrew documentation. Overall, Lab 3 was very informative and helped me to better understand how to use C++ to test verilog modules.


For the Homebrew documentation, I had previous experience using Markdown but this was a good review and it was very helpful in understanding the structure of the website as I had to create a new section to add the documentation to (after trying to simply insert it into the lab section with poor results).


For the future, I want to add more explanations to the Homebrew guide about what the commands do as well as other useful features of homebrew that may be relevant for this project.

## Week of February 6, 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 4](https://github.com/ShinyMiraidon/Chip-VIP-Team-Lab-4): Completed Lab 4
* [Fixed Spelling Errors](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-processor-design.github.io/pull/35): Fixed spelling errors in onboarding documentation


This week was spent mostly on completing onboarding lab 4. Lab 4 introduced a lot of new concepts and was very helpful in getting a better understanding of the toolchaoin we will be using. I did run into a few issues with CMake but Vito was able to help me out with the first issue and I resolved the other issues by switching from the GCC 12.2.0 kit to the Clang 14.0.0 kit.


I also took some time this week to fix formatting errors and spelling mistakes in the onboarding documentation.

## Week of February 13, 2023

Project Work:
* [ALU Design](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-core/pull/1): Created, implemented, and tested a design for a RISC-V-32I ALU


This week was spent learning more about the RISC-V-32I instruction set and then designing an ALU to work with the instruction set. I designed the ALU in verilog and used our toolchain to test the design. After several iterations it passed the tests I designed and so should be fully functional.

## Week of February 20, 2023

This week was mostly spend further reading up on the RISC-V-32I instruction set and thinking about what to implement next for the core. I already plan to implement a sign extension module to be able to feed the 12-bit immediates into the 32-bit ALU module as I had decided against including sign extension funtionality in the ALU module for ease of testing and simplicity.

## Week of February 27, 2023

Project Work:
* [Sign Extension Module](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-core/pull/2): Created, implemented, and tested a design for a sign extension module for the 12-bit immediates.
* [Module Paramertization Plans](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-core/issues/3): Made plans to update the existing core modules to use paramertiation and other applicable concepts from Lab 5.
* [Core Design Project Plan](https://github.com/orgs/NYU-Processor-Design/projects/4): Created a project to organize and keep track of the progress of all the component modules that will make up the core.


This week was spent figuring out the future direction of the core design. I met with Vito to discuss the core and he provided me with some additional reasources to look into for specifics on RISC-V core design. So far, we have decided to use a 5 stage pipeline design that people who took Computer Archetecture should be familiar with.


We also discussed how to handle assigning modules to people to implement. To make it easier on people we plan to make outlines for the modules we need implemented so that when someone wants to implement a module they have a clear idea of what that module needs to do, what interfaces it uses, etc.

## Week of March 6, 2023

Project Work:
* [Parameterized ALU and Sign Extension Modules](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-core/pull/4): Updated the ALU and Sign Extension Modules with paramaterization for the wordsize
* [Created Issues for Core Modules](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-core/issues): Created issues for each of the core modules that need to be implemented


This week was spent adding paramaterization to the ALU and Sign Extension modules as well as organizing and creating issues for the core modules that will need to be implemented. 