## Week 1:

Onboarding went on pretty smoothly. Got a taste of the environment we'll be using to design our processor.

Attempted and finished Lab 1. Got exposed to CMake Toolchain, and how CML works.
While attempting the quests for Lab 1:
*make* des not work on windows. Would not geenrate a makefile and thus used cmake --build . instead.
When attempted to build on VsCode, ran into some minor issues with the header file missing directory even when specified in the CML using target_env_variables.

Also, Started reading up on using verilator.


## Week 1 of February 2023 (week 2 lab) 
 
* [Onboarding Lab 2](https://github.com/siddharthkandpal/onboarding-lab-2)  : Completed Lab 2 SV exercises. 

Discussed the possiblities/alternatives for a new working environment for windows users since i'm struggling with the commands not indigenous to windows for CMake. 
After a great meeting on thursday, I plan on shifting to linux / Vs / Chocolatey / GnU for a better integration environment since CMake is the go to for us. Will take
some advice from peers regarding the same.
Opted to do writeups for the team on some verilog modules for the coming week. Shifting gears and starting the rest of the labs sooner. 

## Week 2 of February 2023 (week 3 lab)

* [Onboarding lab 3](https://github.com/siddharthkandpal/onboarding-lab-3) : Completed lab 3 verification exercise.

I actually tried to ask chat GPT to make the verification for the modules discussed in week 3 of our lab.
The results were very different and not how we coded our testbench, GPT made use of verilator commands and directly sourced
the testbech from the command. Eager to know if we can use the same.
Also, I might not be the best at testbenches and may have done some errors in this week's lab. If i could have more 
sources for the same, it would be helpful.

## Week 3 of February 2023 (lab's 3-4)

 * [Onboarding lab 3](https://github.com/siddharthkandpal/onboarding-lab-3) : Reverification of testbenches in C++

 Got too caught up in academics and job search. The VS Code environment set up as disucssed with vito and reverification of testbenches are going to be pulled early this upcoming week along with lab 4. Excited to start work on the actual design soon.
 Been practising my verilog concepts through my graduate course so be rest assured i'll be upto the mark since I have been practising the same for Hack@DAC 2023.
 
 ## Week 4 of February 2023 (lab's 3-4)
 
Set up the Ctest environment for lab's 3 and 4. Worked on lab3 with rishyak to expedite through the same. Gained insights on the meeting with Vito about AMBA and other peripherals which are going to be implemented in our design spec.
 
 
 ## Week 1 of March 2023 (lab's 3-4)
 
Wrapped up lab 3 performing tests on the modules w help and references from other group members. Began work on lab 4 which should be up soon before the spring break. 
While my occassional midterm examinations slowed down my progress by quite a bit, I hope to get on track by the end of spring break with everyone on the team.

## Week 2 of March 2023 (lab's 3-4)
No significant progress before commencement of the spr break due to additional commitments because of academics. Reading up on the processor and podering which team to work with. Will be discussing with the group about the same post the spring break.

## Week 3 of March 2023 (lab 4)

Spring break

## Week 4 of March 2023 (lab 4)

Still working on making use of catch2 on my previous completed modules. References with respect to lab 2 helping me a lot in understanding how the thing is actually implemented. Looking forward to discussing about the team regarding the tasks prior to the spring break where I can learn & work on a focused part of the processor. 

