# Sean Doyle Design Notebook

Welcome to my Spring 2023 design notebook.

## Week of 23 January 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 1](https://github.com/SPD3/Proc_Design_lab1): Completed Lab 1

I completed the first lab this week which was all about using cmake and make
files. The lab went pretty smoothly for the most part however I could not get
cmake to make the Ninja build system files. When I tried running the commands
in the tutorial cmake came back to me with errors because I did not have the
following set:

CMAKE_MAKE_PROGRAM

CMAKE_C_COMPILER

CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER

I believe these are just settings within the cmakelist file that need to be set
so if we need to use ninja in the future I'm going to have to look into that.
I also did not realize I should put the lab in a git repo to link it here so I
ended up doing the lab in its own separate directory and copying to a git repo
afterwards and making one big commit. As a result the repo linked here does not
really show a natural progression of my work but that's just a first VIP
notebook entry issue. Finally, I would normally set git to ignore the build
directory but for the sake of showing I completed the lab I did not do this and
included them in my commit. I'm not sure if this is the correct thing to do but
it felt like it made sense. Overall the lab went pretty smoothly and I have a
much better understanding of Cmake and make.

## Week of 30 January 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 2](https://github.com/SPD3/onboarding-lab-2): Completed Lab 2

* [Onboarding Lab 1](https://github.com/SPD3/Proc_Design_lab1): Fixed Ninja build system in Lab 1

I completed the second lab this week which was all about system Verilog and
completing exercise related to it. The first exercise was not very hard,
however I struggled with the second exercise. I had never used a Fibonacci
Linear Feedback Shift Register before so I had to look online to see what it did.
I started by following [this site](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear-feedback_shift_register)
but I notices that the pseudo code in that website was putting bits into the
output on the opposite end as what the test cases expected. I ended up looking
at the test creation code to figure out the specifics of the algorithm (which
bits corresponded to which taps and what end of the output to append the new
bit) because I couldn't get the pseudo code from the above website to pass the
test cases.

I also struggled a little bit initially with exercise 3 because I thought I had
to import the mystery modules on my own. I did not realize that they were
automatically included until I looked at the cmake file so I spent a good 10 or
15 minutes trying all possible pathways I could think of to import the mystery
modules. :laughing:

After finishing lab 2 I went back and took another look at Lab 1. Based on the
discussion at our meeting this week I went to [this site](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/ninja)
and installed ninja for my mac. After doing this I re-did the ninja section of
Lab 1 and had no errors!

## Week of 6 February 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 3](https://github.com/SPD3/onboarding-lab-3): Completed Lab 3

I completed the third lab this week which was all about testing. It went pretty
smoothly all things considered but I just ran into a bunch of small problems
that made things take longer. None of these were very significant, they were
were mostly me misunderstanding how the actual code was intended to work and as
a result my tests did not verify the code's function correctly. Also, for my
exercise 4 tests I decided to test all possible inputs which takes about 30
seconds to do. If this were production code I would likely modify these tests to
use randomness to pick a subset of inputs but I wanted to get a better feel for
the limits of bruteforce testing all possible inputs.

This week, I also created a script that automatically built, made, and ran the
tests within the toolchain because I got sick of typing cmake .., make, and
then the test command over and over again. Additionally I started to work on
some documentation for GitKraken which is the tool that I use to manage local
git repos.

## Week of 13 February 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 4](https://github.com/SPD3/onboarding-lab-4): Completed Lab 4

I completed the fourth lab this week. It went pretty well however at the very 
end I tried compiling my code by running cmake and for some reason it compiled 
for ninja not for make. I went back through the original tutorial, double checked 
all of my work and then tried running cmake again, and it still compiled for 
the ninja build system. I cleared my build directory and recompiled and only 
then it created a make file. I'm not sure why this occurred but it was pretty 
confusing for a bit. Other than this minor hiccup the lab was pretty 
self-explanatory and went well.


## Week of 20 February 2023

Project Work:
* [GitKraken Documentation](https://github.com/SPD3/nyu-processor-design.github.io/tree/GitKrakenDocumentation)

This week I began looking at the Risc-V documentation [here] (https://riscv.org), 
[here] (https://www.cs.sfu.ca/~ashriram/Courses/CS295/assets/notebooks/RISCV/RISCV_CARD.pdf),
and in the spec manual. Most of it I do not understand yet but mostly I was 
hoping to get acquainted with the resources that way when I do have questions in 
the future I know where to look for answers. I found that the core instructions 
link that I referenced above to be the most helpful as that gave me a good idea 
of all the functionality that we will have to implement.

I also continued working on the GitKraken documentation that I started a few 
weeks ago. I added sections on committing, pushing, pulling, merging, switching 
branches, and creating new branches so it is pretty close to ready. I think I 
will add a few more pictures and then beta test it on someone before putting in 
a PR. Not sure when this will be because I don't think this documentation is 
high priority but if I have some down time in the next few weeks it could be 
pretty soon.

## Week of 27 February 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 5](https://nyu-processor-design.github.io/getting_started/onboarding/06_advanced_sv.html)

This week I completed the fifth onboarding lab which was all about advanced 
System Verilog syntax. It made sense overall and I liked learning about 
interfaces and how they can be used to explicitly link Verilog components 
together. I didn't quite understand the difference between nets and variables 
because this section of the lab felt pretty technical and kind of flew over my 
head. It might have helped to see some examples so I might look up example code 
and add it to the lab to help others that struggled with this section too.

## Week of 6 March 2023

Project Work:
* [NYU-Mem Repository](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-mem)

This week I created the NYU-Mem repository. After talking with Vito I created 
the issues for the following tasks:
* Mapping out the interface between the memory controller and the HPB
* Implementing the memory control unit
* Creating a decoder for ROM/RAM
* Translating Hex to Verilog for ROM storage.

I then hopped on a call with Rishyak and Kevin and we looked over a PR that 
Rishyak had created for the mem repository that had an interface between the 
memory controller and HPB mapped out based on chats we had been having 
throughout the week. We deciding on adding a response flag but other than 
that kept what Rishyak had coded up.

## Week of 13 March 2023

-- Off for Spring Break --

## Week of 20 March 2023

* [NYU-Mem Repository](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-mem)

This week I worked on the memory controller in the NYU-mem repository. I worked 
with Vito on interfacing the NYU-mem repo with the Amba repo so that I could 
have access to the memory interface inside the controller. Also, I began 
researching more into OpenRAM and read [this](https://escholarship.org/content/qt8x19c778/qt8x19c778_noSplash_b2b3fbbb57f1269f86d0de77865b0691.pdf)
paper on the tool. I don't fully understand how it works as I am kind of 
confused by the diagrams on the third page of the paper which show switching 
signals mid clock cycle to perform read and write operations, but I plan on 
digging more into this in the coming weeks as I imagine it will be pretty 
critical to implementing the memory controller device. I also cloned the OpenRAM 
repo and built the project, however, I cannot figure out how to run it to create 
any RAM designs. I've been a bit frustrated with the lack of documentation for 
OpenRAM and have yet to even find a good "Hello-World" OpenRAM tutorial for 
memory generation. Finally, I got Nicky started on implementing a hex to Verilog 
decoder that will be used later to implement the ROM on our processor.

## Week of 27 March 2023

* [NYU-Mem Repository](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-mem)

This week I started off by trying to implement the control signals outlined in
[this](https://escholarship.org/content/qt2vv5q88z/qt2vv5q88z_noSplash_389063a5d89db05d7b42a63b528c7fc2.pdf)
article on pages 15-16. I added the control signals and timing code to the 
memory controller module and implemented an OpenRAM interface that could 
interact with OpenRAM generated memory. I could not get the code to compile with 
the nyu-cmake functions so I reached out to Vito to see what I could modify to 
enable timing controls. After talking with Vito, he told me that it would be 
more beneficial to create a script to generate the OpenRAM memory that my code 
would interact with so I am going to redirect my efforts in the coming weeks to 
understanding how OpenRAM works and how to generate memory with it.
I also improved the documentation in the NYU-mem repo. I tried to model the 
issues after the nyu-core issues and also added an issue for the OpenRAM memory
generation code that I am working on now. I added a few new labels to the issues 
that I already have to provide more details on their status.

## Week of 3 April 2023

* [NYU-Mem Repository](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-mem)

This week I generated memory using the OpenRAM library for the first time. I 
followed [this](https://github.com/VLSIDA/OpenRAM/blob/stable/docs/source/basic_usage.md)
tutorial and created a simple configuration file for OpenRAM to run on. It took 
longer than expected to follow the tutorial because I installed OpenRAM in a 
different location than where they specified but after working out these details 
it generated memory perfectly fine. I then installed an application called 
[Layout Editor](https://layouteditor.com/download) in order to open the GDS file 
generated and got to see a visual representation of the memory generated. I also 
looked at the Verilog memory file generated and compared it to the [sample](https://github.com/ShonTaware/SRAM_SKY130/blob/main/OpenRAM/results/SRAM_2x16/sram_2_16_sky130A.v) 
one that Vito sent me. They looked very similar to one another which was good to 
see. I plan on learning more about the parameters that I can customize in the 
OpenRAM config file and documenting my steps to generate memory on this repo 
website in order to allow people in the future to re-create the memory I made.

## Week of 10 April 2023

* [NYU-Mem Repository](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-mem)

This week I continued to generate memory using the OpenRAM library trying out 
different parameters in the config file. I found [this](https://sourcecodeartisan.com/2020/07/25/openram.html) 
website which gave be a lot of useful information on what the parameters of the 
config file all do, and I changed the word_size and num_of_words to increase the 
amount of memory generated. The actual memory generation then took a lot longer 
than expected so it seems like OpenRAM is doing some pretty heavy calculations 
to create these large memories. I then tried to generate ROM and found limited 
success there. I started by setting the number of r/w ports to 0 and the number 
of read only ports to 1 because I thought that would generate memory that was 
only readable. This caused a bunch of errors to occur none of which I could 
solve. I ended up reaching out to the creator of OpenRAM halfway through the 
week and he told me that was the wrong way of generating ROM and he pointed me 
to the most recent release of OpenRAM which had a specific ROM generation script 
that I could run on some sample ROM config files. I updated OpenRAM and tried 
running the ROM generation script but still couldn't get it to work. The ROM 
script relied on this technology called sky130 which I could not get installed 
based on the OpenRAM instructions found [here](https://github.com/VLSIDA/OpenRAM/blob/stable/docs/source/basic_setup.md)
I thought it might be an OS issue as all of the instructions and downloads are 
written for linux, so I reached out to Nicky halfway through the week to see if
he could run the ROM compiler on his Linux VM. We still could not get it working 
by the end of the week so I asked Nicky to send an email to the OpenRAM creator 
as well just so that he knows a few people are experiencing the same issue. I 
also added an issue to the OpenRAM repo to add more ROM generation documentation 
because the OpenRAM creator asked me to do so in our email exchange.

## Week of 17 April 2023

* [NYU-Mem Repository](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-mem)

This week I worked primarily on documenting all the steps necessary to
download OpenRAM and generate memory. I create an instructions Markdown file and 
wrote down instructions for OpenRAM installation, RAM generation and ROM 
generation. I also added more information on the files that should be generated 
and some extra resources to learn more about OpenRAM. I sent this documentation 
to Krzysztof and Uma and they both liked it. I also cleaned up the repository 
and added various files to the .gitignore to keep the repository clean in the 
future.