# Uma Nachiappan's Design Notebook

Welcome to my Spring 2023 design notebook.


## Week of 23 January 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 1](https://github.com/umanachi/vip_lab1): Completed Lab 1

This week, I explored the tools on our Anubis IDE and started understanding more
about how to use git and GitHub. I completed lab 1 from the onboarding series
and learned about toolchains and CMake, and how to implement them to run simple
programs.

I struggled a bit with linking my directories and files created in Anubis to my
GitHub repository, but with a bit of Googling and with help from the VIP website
guides, I was able to push my directory to GitHub and link it above.

I will be unable to complete Lab 2 next week, but I will work on both Lab 2 and
3 during Week 3 (Feb 5-12).

## Week of 6 February 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 2](https://github.com/umanachi/onboarding-lab-2): Completed Lab 2
* [Onboarding Lab 3](https://github.com/umanachi/onboarding-lab-3): Lab 3 In-Progress

I worked on Lab 2 and 3 this week with the intention to finish both by the weekend but alas, going to India for a week without internet means Lab 3 is a work-in-progress.

For Lab 2, I initially struggled with Exercise 2 until I searched up what a Fibonacci [linear-feedback shift register was](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear-feedback_shift_register). After finding a diagram of how the component works, it was fairly simple to build the module. I needed a quick refresher on the always_comb statement, since I haven't used it before. Overall, this lab was a good review/practice of Verilog after taking Digital Logic last semester.

In Lab 3, I completed Exercises 1 and 4, which were the 'simpler' multiplexers. I was a bit lost on how to start the code for the tests, but I took a look at the dv directory and module tests from Lab 2 as examples. I feel like my code is okay, and they work as desired, but there is likely a more efficient way to write those programs. If I get the chance/time, I want to take another look at my submissions for  1 + 4.

Next week, I want to finish off Lab 3, and try to complete Lab 4 -- hopefully I'll be able to catch up!

## Week of 13 February 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 2 Docs](https://nyu-processor-design.github.io/getting_started/onboarding/03_sv.html#exercise-2-sequential-logic): Added LFSR diagram

Due to some personal issues, I am still behind on my partially-self-designated timeline. My progress on Lab 3 was on hold this week, but I'm determined to get Lab 3 and 4 completed next week.

I attempted to set up WSL on my laptop, but I ran into problems when I tried to install the additional packages (CMake, Verilator, etc). I tried to update Ubuntu, then install these packages, but it still wasn't working for me. So, I decided to switch to setting up a virtual machine using VirtualBox instead. Fortunately, this worked out well, and I now have a functional Linux VM for future project work.

I also made a diagram/schematic for a Fibonacci LFSR for Lab 2 Exercise 2, and created a messy pull request to update the lab docs. This created a mess within my fork of the upstream repo, since I was trying to push from my main branch instead of creating a temporary branch for my changes. A huge shoutout to Rishyak who helped me clean up my fork and also taught me important info about Git and Github (including some very useful git commands). 

## Week of 20 February 2023

Project Work:
* [Working Collaboratively Docs](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-processor-design.github.io/pull/76): Created and updated guide for Collaboration

This week, I drafted a guide for working collaboratively that included pull requests, issues, teamwork, and working on team repos. I added a few sections about forks from Rishyak's suggestions, but there are still a couple of questions/changes I'm probably going to make after I get some more feedback. I have found that I kind of enjoy writing documentation and guides, and I'm getting more used to markdown syntax LOL. I didn't have much time this week due to the start of midterm season, so I'm still working on the labs and I unfortunately submitted this DN quite late.

## Week of 27 February 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 3](https://github.com/umanachi/onboarding-lab-3): Completed Lab 3
* Documentation: Mini-Lecture

*It's been 84 years...* but I finally finished Lab 3. I was procrastinating on Exercises 2 and 3 since I wasn't sure where to start, but I took inspiration/clues from the tests of Exercises 2 and 3 from Lab 2, since the questions were similar. Mostly just relieved that this lab is completed and I can get going on Lab 4 next week before spring break. I feel a lot better about working on Lab 4 since it looks like some of the work is based off of Lab 3, which is now done.

I'm also learning the art of asking for what I want, so I am now appointed as Documentation Czar :) I wrote one guide and decided I wanted more, so here we are.
I've started drafting a docs-ified version of Vito's mini lecture on the structure of our future chip, but I don't have a GitHub file yet since I'm trying to avoid a long gross commit history. I'm also going to meet with Vito next week to talk about the other roles & responsibilities of the Doc Czar.

## Week of 6 March 2023

Project Work:
* [Onboarding Lab 4](https://github.com/umanachi/onboarding-lab-4): Completed Lab 4
* Documentation: Edits for AMBA [ReadMe & AHB](https://github.com/NYU-Processor-Design/nyu-amba/pull/9)

I managed to complete Lab 4 before spring break, but I am aware that there are probably a few issues - I still need to do some testing/debugging. It is not my best work for sure, but under my self-appointed time crunch I am glad it is completed and I can start thinking about what component I want to work on.

I also completed my first Doc Czar job - Rishyak asked me to take a look at the AMBA repo docs and check clarity and understanding. I made a PR for a couple of typos & other relatively small edits, but overall the docs were already well written.

Despite bringing my laptop with me during spring break, I did not get a chance to work on Vito's lecture - but I have a clearer idea of what is needed after talking to Vito, so I want to get a good chunk of the draft this week.
